All right here we go let's do this let's run this one year simulation and in France mode.
So speaking about inference mode the first thing we have to do is make sure that the train variable
of our environment object which was created here is equal to force.
And since this is how we initialize the train variable here.
Well like before we can just train here then.
Well we're actually almost ready to start that big loop that is going to iterate on all the minutes
happening in one full year.
But before that remember we have to initialize the state meaning we have to start somewhere.
In know start in a specific state and for this we have our great observer method from the environment.
So we're going to call that method but actually we've already done this before.
It's in the training.
Remember just before starting the big while loop iterating on all the five month period for each book.
Well we initialized the state with the current state extracted from the observed method of our environment
object.
So I'm copying this and I'm going to base that here and now we can start the big full loop to run that
one your simulation inference mode.
So why did I say for loop and not while loop as before.
Well that's because you know this time we won't have to deal with that.
Game over feature because I remind that this game of feature is only used for the training.
You know in case our AI is doing pretty bad well we want to restart from scratch the training.
But now we're just doing some simulation and therefore we're just going to loop over all the time steps
and therefore we don't need a well here.
So we're going to do this with for you but I can already take this because we're going to look over
this time not five months but 12 months because the whole simulation is over one full year.
So let's start this for loop which is going to loop over all the time step in the range starting from
0 to well the total number of minutes in one year meaning not five months but 12 month.
All right so we have the total number of minutes in one year here.
And so for all the time steps meaning all the minutes in one year what are we going to do.
Well you know how I love to code in efficiency.
And so that's exactly what we're going to be efficient and effective because indeed what we have to
do now is just for each time that here of this for loop Frigg the values then get the action that has
a maximum value then compute the energy spent by the AI then a deadly environment and then finally update
the current state so that it doesn't stay initialized like that.
And therefore what we only need to do now is just take what we have already done in the training in
that inference part because indeed here was we only do is some inference which means we're predicting
the outcome when some input states feed the neural network.
And this is exactly what happens with the simulation.
So basically we only have to get all of this.
So let's take this for now but then you're going to see that even afterwards.
Well here it's going to be the same.
And here it's going to be the same when we have to update the current state.
But let's take care of this verse so I'm going to go back to testing.
And now let's be careful we're going to have some alignment issue after right.
Yes indeed.
Here we go.
But no worries.
I'm going to take care of this very quickly.
So I'd like to do it this way.
Here we go then the F is now well aligned.
Then we have to direction.
Yes.
All good then else is going to go below the IF THEN direction again.
I just need to do it this way.
And finally the energy has to go below the s right because the if else is only to get the right direction.
All right see we've already done the heart of the simulation where Let's recap still where we first
get the q values by predicting the outcome that we get when we feed the neural network of our AI with
the current state then we select the action that has the maximum of these values that we've got here.
Then depending on the value of the action you know whether it's below the direction boundary to or above
the duration boundary to where we get the direction which is going to be minus one if the action is
zero or 1 meaning that is cooling down the server or plus 1 if the action is 3 or 4 meaning that the
AI is hitting up this.
And once again I remind that we need to get that direction because it is required argument of the update
of method which will be our next step here.
After computing the energy.
Very quickly here of course that energy is computed the same way by this formula which we verified in
the training.
And so now speaking of next steps.
Well the next step is of course to update the environment and to reach the next date.
So I'm going to you know simply copy this line again because it's exactly the same only we won't use
the word and the game over Viceregal any time but you know we can just still get them or replace them
by some underscores.
So let's go back to the testing implementation and netspace that just below.
Here we go.
So now we get the next date and all of this is correct.
So we can again move onto the next step which is this time to update that current state variable by
sending it equal to that next date.
We've just reached because indeed after we obtained the environment and reached the next date well the
new occurrence date becomes that next date reached that's exactly what it's going to be the final step
of the simulation because indeed of course all this is related to the training you know related to the
ditch an object used for the deep learning process.
And of course this is the last which is reduce thanks to the training but function well.
All this belongs obviously to the training.
Therefore here we go.
We are confident that this is our final step.
Current state is next state.
All right.
So see that's how we can code things very efficiently.
And so now good news we're very soon about to get the final result whether we are above or below 50
percent of energy saving.
So I can't wait to test because remember that I tested on my site with 1000 bucks.
And right now with you I'm testing with you know one hundred epochs in the training.
So we're going to see if we manage to get at least 50 percent.
So let's do this final step in the next little while you know where we will print the final result.
So we will print it all energy spent by the AI it's all energy spent by the service out in a live system
when there is no AI.
Of course we won't have to print this because this was for the training so we can already remove this
and we'll have to do a final print here which will be of course to print the final outcome that we're
expecting so bad which is the energy saved by the AI vs disturbers alternative cooling system.
So let's reveal that final outcome in the next tutorial.
And until then enjoy AI.